Arbiter v0.6
by Trent McPheron <twilightinzero@gmail.com>
------------

-- Intro --
To see details about who wrote this program and the resources used in it, see the AUTHORS file. For the license, see the COPYING file. For details of changes to the program, see the ChangeLog file.

This is an application to assist Rings of Honor officials in calling and logging duels, mainly intended to be used in the RDI, or other settings where the flash chat caller tool is unavailable. It is written in C# and uses GTK# to draw the GUI, thus it requires GTK# and the .NET Framework (or Mono) to run. As long as you have those, it will run on Windows, Mac OS, and Linux. Recent versions of Windows already have the .NET Framework installed.

If you're on Windows, download and install the GTK# runtime from the Google Code project site or here:
http://ftp.novell.com/pub/mono/gtk-sharp/gtk-sharp-2.12.9-2.win32.msi

If you're on Mac OS, download Mono and the GTK# runtime here:
http://ftp.novell.com/pub/mono/archive/2.4.2.3/macos-10-universal/6/MonoFramework-2.4.2.3_6.macos10.novell.universal.dmg

If you're on Linux, use your package manager to get the required software.

-- Features --
This program can call for all three sports, and supports calling normal, challenge, and madness duels. Each tab has a special icon for each venue/type combo, even for DoF and DoM Madness, which don't actually exist yet. ;) Like the tool in the flash chat, it will resolve the moves for you and update the scores. The interface resembles that of the tool in the flash chat. It has no way of knowing what moves each opponent is picking, though, so you'll have to input them into the tool yourself, by way of the provided comboboxes. Thus its use is more pronounced if you need to (or want to) log the duels, as described below.

-- Logging --
An additional feature it has over the flash chat tool is that it will create shift reports for you, and it will log each duel. The logs will be stored in a subdirectory of a directory to be chosen by the user. So if your log directory is C:/Users/Blah/Documents/Duels, the duels that are called on October 31, 2009 will be in C:/Users/Documents/Duels/2009-10-31. It will create a bare-bones shift report as well, consisting of the date and the final lines of each duel fought while the program is open. If you edit the shift report while the program is open, to insert comments for example, those changes will be lost once another duel ends.

-- Custom short names --
You should put each duelist's name into the entry boxes with their official name, as opposed to a nickname or just their first name. The program normally determines the short name of a duelist by splitting by spaces and taking the first word. In some cases, this is not sufficient. You can explicitly set the short name of a duelist with a slash. Do not include a space before or after the slash. For examples, look at the included list of duelists (see below). If the program determines a short name by itself and finds it to be longer than ten characters, it will be truncated. This is a fail-safe for if the slash is accidentally omitted. This behavior can be overriden in case of intentionally long names, by explicitly setting the short name.

-- Duelist/Ring Lists --
The program will maintain a list of duelists and rings that can be picked from a drop-down box, or be used to make suggestions as you type. When you start a duel with a duelist not already on the list, that duelist will be added. This doesn't apply to the rings; you will have to use the included list editor. To edit one of the lists, click on the appropriate button next to the duelist or ring entries. A dialog will appear with the desired list, and you can add, delete, or edit an item. Use the buttons on the right to add or delete, and to edit, double click on the desired item. The list of duelists is always sorted alphabetically, and cannot be re-arranged. The list of rings, however, can be re-arranged by clicking on an item and dragging it wherever you want it. The program includes a list of duelists constructed from all duelists that have fought since October, and my own ring set is included as an example. You should change it if you're not a Tales geek. ;) If you call for Fists, make sure to keep the rings Styx, Pit, Fern, Can, and Pool, and if you call for Magic, make sure to keep Poseidon, Tartarus, Anemoi, Titan, and Olympus.

-- Brawler --
As of version 0.4, Arbiter includes a brawl tool. This tool is still in beta, because at the moment, the only sport it calls perfectly is swords, though it does have considerations for the other sports. Magic will need a mechanic for inputting and storing the advanced spells for each combatant, and I'm not entirely sure what Fists needs, though in the tool's current state, the entire advantages mechanic is absent.

To use the brawl tool, select "Brawl..." from the shift menu. The main dueling window will disappear, though be assured that when you return to the main window, all current duels will remain intact, just as you left them. What it will be replaced with is a window for configuring the upcoming brawl.

For the combatant box, you must insert each combatant on its own line, and short names must be used. Thus, you must do, for example,

Xanth
Matt
Jake
etc..

The rules box includes various other options for the duel. Starting HP (stamina), starting MP (mods), static defenses, full fancy defenses, and knockout MP bonuses.

A static defense allows a combatant to protect another one. Thus, any attack aimed for the protected combatant will be evaluated against the protector's primary move rather than the target's. However, a combatant can static defend only once per round. Mutiple static defenders are necessary to protect a combatant against multiple oncoming attacks.

A full fancy defense, when enabled, is triggered automatically if a combatant's fancy secondary maneuver would beat multiple primary attacks. When this happens, attempts to block every oncoming attacker will be made, BUT, no damage will be inflicted upon the attackers.

Currently, the tool makes no restrictions upon which moves can be used to static defend or full fancy. Thus, a thrust could be used to protect someone, or a fancy thrust could be used to fend off multiple cutting attackers.

A knockout MP bonus, when enabled, gives an extra mod to a combatant that inflicts the knockout blow upon another combatant.

When everything is ready, click start brawl to start the brawl. Or if you want to abort, click cancel and you will be returned to the regular window.

All of the combatants will be displayed in an area to the right. When there are more combatants then what presently fits in the height of the window, a scrollbar will appear with which to scroll through the combatants. The window may be resized if desired, and if the new window height is enough to fit all the combatants, the scrollbar will disappear. The order of combatants for the current round is displayed in a frame on the right side of the window, above the summary box. The summary box will display the results of each round. The summary will also be saved into a text file in the log directory, like a regular duel. When all moves and targets are selected, the resolve button will become clickable. The brawl can be aborted at any time with the cancel button, which will ask for confirmation.

Unlike in the regular dueling tool, restrictions are NOT made to which moves can be picked. The only thing the tool looks for is that moves and targets are selected. However, it will let you know if a move is invalid by coloring the text red. Valid moves will be colored green. The target box's text will always be green unless the combatant is targeting him/her/itself, in which case it will be red. If a combatant actually does wish to target itself, there is a resolution clause for it. Any combatant attempting to SD him/her/itself will be punished with an easter egg and a wasted turn. After resolution, all comboboxes' text are colored gray. Due to the way the tool is currently programmed, the target box will also be cleared.

What determines the validity of the moves is these rules: The primary move may not be the same as the secondary move, or the last primary or last secondary move. The secondary move may not be the same as the primary move, or the last secondary move, but may be the same as the last primary move. The only exception is Disengage. The reason the tool won't block resolution when invalid moves are detected is because some brawls may choose to use different rules, or an error was made, and the combatant may wish to choose the move that was mistakenly entered in the last round.

The tool will prevent toggling a modifier checkbox when the combatant doesn't have enough mods.

Also, there is no undoer. To compensate for this, the HP, MP, and round numbers are user-adjustable, and invalid moves will not block resolution. An undoer would be complicated to implement, but if there is enough demand for it, I will see what I can do.

Once there are only two combatants remaining, the target will be locked in, and the secondary move will be emptied and locked in. The SD check and the secondary mod checks will also be grayed out.

When there is a winner, it will be printed to the summary, and all the combatant boxes will become insensitive. In case the last two opponents eliminate each other, the tool will not crash... however, the tool will still become completely insensitive except for the cancel button. Any caller entrusted with calling a brawl should be capable of settling a sudden death duel without the tool's help anyways.

If a combatant needs to leave the ring, use the X checkbox or set the HP to zero. The combatant will "leave the ring" before any further resolution takes place.

-- Other Stuff --
If you have any trouble with this program, use the e-mail address at the top of this readme to let me know. This includes program bugs, matrix errors, etc. You can also use the bug tracker at Arbiter's Google Code page. Feature requests can be submitted there too.

htpp://roh-arbiter.googlecode.com

This program is licensed under the MIT/X11 License, which means that it is free and open source. The source code can be downloaded from the same place you downloaded the program itself, and you can do, for the most part, whatever you want with it.

I'm not a professional programmer, so I'm not promising the code will actually be of professional quality. ;P Any changes for the good of the program will be welcomed as long as it doesn't stray too far from my vision for it. That is to say, I won't put it into my version of the tool if I don't want it. Nothing's stopping you from releasing your own version. :)

With all that out of the way, enjoy using the Arbiter! :)
